The February TIOBE Index ofthemost
popular programming languages isout,
and while the work going on inthe
background of TIOBE calculations has
changed,notmuchhasshiftedintheway
of rankings. Python continues tosit
atoptheindex,withCandJavadirectly
behind it. In Feb. 2021,thosethree
also occupied the top spot,butwith
Python in thenumberthreeposition,C
attop,andJavainsecondplace.Beyond
the topthree,therehasn’tbeenmuch
movement in the index,withpositions
four through eight unchangedfromthe
same time last year. Thoseslotsare
occupied,  respectively, by C++, C#,
Visual  Basic,  JavaScript  and PHP.
Positions nineand10swappedfromFeb.
21 to now, withAssemblyLanguageand
SQL   now   occupying  each  other's
positions. The one big move ofnote
betweenFeb.2021andFeb.2022waswith
the  Groovy programming language, an
object-oriented languageforJava.Over
thecourseoftheyear,Groovyfellfrom
12th position all the way to 20th,
putting  it perilously close to the
"other  programming  languages" list.
TIOBE  CEO  Paul  Jansen  attributes
Groovy's decline to thegrowthinthe
CI/CD  space.  Groovy  was the only
language used for writing scriptson
Jenkins,  which  Jansen describes as
havingbeen"theonlyrealplayerinthe
CI/CD  domain"  early on. Now, with
platforms that don’trequireGroovy,
like GitHub, Azure DevOpsandGitLab,
Groovyislosingitsplaceatthetable.
"Groovycouldhavegrownfurtherbecause
it   was   the   major  script-based
alternativeforJavarunningonthesame
JVM.However,Kotlinistakingoverthat
position right now, soIthinkGroovy
willhaveahardtime,"Jensensaid.The
TIOBEindexmaynotbefullofsurprises
thismonth,butJansendidhavealotto
say about theindexitselfthismonth,
as this is thefirsttimeithasbeen
compiled  using  Similarweb's traffic
analysis platforminsteadofAlexa."We
have usedSimilarwebforthefirsttime
this monthtoselectsearchenginesand
fortunately,therearenobigchangesin
the index due to thisswap.Theonly
striking difference is thatthetop3
languages, Python, C, and Java, all
gained  more than 1 percent in the
rankings,"Jansensaid.TIOBEdecidedto
make  the  switch  this month after
Amazon's announcement inDecember2021
that it was shutting the Alexa web
ranking service down,effectiveMay1,
2022, ending 25 yearsoftheprogram.
Jansen notedthatnoteverywebsitehas
been onboarded, butthattheswitchto
Similarweb included a switchtousing
HtmlUnit, a non-GUI web browserwith
APIs that let Javaappsinvokepages,
fill forms and do otherstandardweb
browsing  activity. This switch will
eventually  allow  TIOBE  to include
websites itwasunabletocrawlbefore,
like Stackoverflfow and Github,which
could have a largerimpactonscores.