The February TIOBE Index ofthe
most popularprogramminglanguages
isout,andwhiletheworkgoingon
in   the  background  of  TIOBE
calculations haschanged,notmuch
hasshiftedinthewayofrankings.
Python continues to sitatopthe
index, with C and Javadirectly
behind it. In Feb. 2021, those
three also occupiedthetopspot,
butwithPythoninthenumberthree
position, C at top, andJavain
secondplace.Beyondthetopthree,
there hasn’t beenmuchmovement
in the index,withpositionsfour
through eight unchanged fromthe
same time last year.Thoseslots
areoccupied,respectively,byC++,
C#, Visual Basic, JavaScriptand
PHP. Positionsnineand10swapped
from Feb.21tonow,withAssembly
LanguageandSQLnowoccupyingeach
other'spositions.Theonebigmove
of notebetweenFeb.2021andFeb.
2022   was   with   the  Groovy
programming      language,     an
object-oriented languageforJava.
Overthecourseoftheyear,Groovy
fellfrom12thpositionalltheway
to  20th, putting it perilously
close to the "other programming
languages" list. TIOBE CEO Paul
Jansen attributesGroovy'sdecline
to the growthintheCI/CDspace.
Groovy was theonlylanguageused
for writing scripts on Jenkins,
which Jansen describes ashaving
been "the onlyrealplayerinthe
CI/CD domain" earlyon.Now,with
platforms  that  don’t require
Groovy, like GitHub,AzureDevOps
and GitLab, Groovy islosingits
place at thetable."Groovycould
have grown furtherbecauseitwas
the majorscript-basedalternative
for Java runningonthesameJVM.
However,Kotlinistakingoverthat
position right now, so I think
Groovy will have a hard time,"
Jensen said. The TIOBEindexmay
not  be full of surprises this
month,butJansendidhavealotto
say about the index itselfthis
month,asthisisthefirsttimeit
has    been    compiled    using
Similarweb's   traffic   analysis
platforminsteadofAlexa."Wehave
used Similarwebforthefirsttime
thismonthtoselectsearchengines
and fortunately, therearenobig
changes in the indexduetothis
swap. Theonlystrikingdifference
is  that  the top 3 languages,
Python, C, and Java, allgained
more  than  1  percent  in the
rankings,"  Jansen  said.  TIOBE
decided to make the switchthis
month after Amazon'sannouncement
in  December  2021 that it was
shutting  the Alexa web ranking
service  down, effective May 1,
2022,  ending  25 years of the
program.  Jansen noted that not
every website hasbeenonboarded,
but that theswitchtoSimilarweb
included   a  switch  to  using
HtmlUnit, a non-GUI web browser
withAPIsthatletJavaappsinvoke
pages, fill forms and do other
standard  web browsing activity.
This switch willeventuallyallow
TIOBE to include websitesitwas
unable  to  crawl  before, like
Stackoverflfow and Github, which
could  have a larger impact on
scores.